Preface
---
Most software engineering texts are written to teach entirely new matter or broaden one's knowledge in a familiar area. They have an additive effect on one's comprehension of the software discipline. But this book is unique. It serves as an antidote to the so-called knowledge that you have been systematically exposed to throughout your engineering career, which I'm sure was, is, and will continue to be a glittering one regardless.

This is a book set to dismantle and to challenge. To call out and to stamp out. But more importantly, to persuade you to think for yourself. It is littered with what might appear as bold and contentious claims — unexploded munitions that keep the reader engaged, cautious, and questioning. There'll be times where you might be asking yourself "did he really say that or is it a typo?" If you frequently find yourself questioning, then I'm only glad — provided that you maintain objectivity and consider only the facts. Maybe you have something to _unlearn_. But before you call me cocky, I will double-down: even if you disagree with the holistic approach described in this book, I personally guarantee that many of its underlying concepts will be adopted by you in some form.

Some people are fortunate enough to have had good mentors at pivotal points throughout their career. I'm certainly among this group. But as we progress, we are saddened to find that the pool of reliable advice-givers begins to shrink. By the time you've reached the top echelons of leadership, you've become accustomed to mentoring and coaching others, but when you need advice for yourself, there is rarely someone to turn to. At this juncture, some of us may turn to books for advice or some other media. No matter the choice, you are probably searching for new and better ways of doing things, new ways of managing engineering teams, new ways of being a better leader. This book might be for you.

A long time ago, my university lecturer told us, undergraduates, that as software engineers, we were first and foremost _engineers_, and we were thus expected to keep a journal. It would be a place for us to log our notes, design sketches, calculations, thoughts maybe... So I kept one, probably not as diligently as my lecturer would have liked. One turned into two, and twenty years later, my bookshelf is very nearly out of space. I look over them sometimes.

I can say now that I've benefited significantly from taking notes and reflecting on my thinking and approach from many years ago, which I sometimes find naive and other times impressive. But it's not just I, many of my colleagues and clients benefited from the thoughts and experiences that was been able to recall. Perhaps the reader might also find a spiral notebook and an empty nook on their bookshelf, so they may one day gaze upon their present self from the future. You never know, there might be an unwritten book in it for you.

The desire for writing this book has been brewing for many years. I had learned not only from bad experiences, as it so often and sadly happens, but from good ones too. It is those experiences in particular that have helped me develop an intuition for the concepts that might foster a high-performing, meritocratic engineering culture. I have witnessed firsthand the benefits of clearly defined personal accountability, empowerment of local decision-making through the preservation of problem context, and the durability of conceptually integral designs. It showed me that there is a formula for engineering excellence. This book is a culmination of those experiences, and ultimately that formula, offering detailed guidance and actionable steps to cultivate a thriving software engineering environment where everyone can excel.